Nomenclature:
- plaintext <-> secret
- ciphertext <-> ciphertext (?)
- attempt at recovering plaintext <-> tecret
- alphabet <-> key
- encryption <-> forward process
- decryption <-> reverse process

Notes:
- monoalphabetic substitution
    - each letter always maps to same cipher letter
    - e.g. you have a key which tells you how the letters are shifted
    - this is very trivial, Casear Cipher for example
- polyalphabetic substitution (Vigenere cipher)
    - uses multiple substitution alphabets (see example below)
    - secret = ATTACKATDAWN, key = LEMON
    - A T T A C K A T D A W N
    - L E M O N L E M O N L E
    - L X F O P V E F R N H R
    - e.g. vigenere cipher
- frequency analysis is applicable to both, but poly is more durable
- can apply multiple alphabets to make cipher stronger
- Vigenere cipher explained: https://i.imgur.com/D41dV4w.png


Results of current experiment with Vigenere:
- The program successfully finds the key through gradient-based optimization
However, only the forward process of encryption was implemented differentiably,
meaning that the only way to compute the loss is through knowing the true plaintext,
and then encryptying it using our guessed key, and comparing the true ciphertext to
the ciphertext generated by the guessed key.
- The reason I took this approach is because in most cryptanalysis scenarios, being able
to perform the reverse process of decryption is usually very difficult without some prior
knowledge about the secret or the key. Therefore, for differentiable programming, it made
more sense to me to implement only the forward process differentiably, and have gradient
descent learn the true key by using it to encrypt the plaintext and then compare the ciphertexts.
    - The "catch" here is that this feels sort of like cheating. Is there a way to make this less trivial?
    Maybe give the model a sliver of the truth for the plaintext and/or the key.
    - Specficially for substitution ciphers, it may be possible to differentiably implement
    the reverse process. That would enable us to instead start from the ciphertext, guess the key
    and then run the reverse process to get some plaintext. BUT now we have no idea of how to
    update the model because we dont know how close our guessed key is to producing the correct plaintext.

